Remove outdated android-proguard-example (#2843)
google/gson: Troubleshooting.md

  The overloads with `Type` parameter do not provide any type-safety guarantees.
- When using `TypeToken` make sure you don't capture a type variable. For example avoid something like `new TypeToken<List<T>>()` (where `T` is a type variable). Due to Java [type erasure](https://dev.java/learn/generics/type-erasure/) the actual type of `T` is not available at runtime. Refactor your code to pass around `TypeToken` instances or use [`TypeToken.getParameterized(...)`](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/com.google.code.gson/gson/latest/com.google.gson/com/google/gson/reflect/TypeToken.html#getParameterized(java.lang.reflect.Type,java.lang.reflect.Type...)), for example `TypeToken.getParameterized(List.class, elementType)` where `elementType` is a type you have to provide separately.

> If you are using a code shrinking tool such as Proguard / R8 (for example when building an Android app), make sure it is correctly configured to keep generic signatures and to keep Gson's `TypeToken` class.
> See the [Proguard / R8](#r8--proguard) section for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using a code shrinking tool such as ProGuard / R8 (for example when building an Android app), make sure it is correctly configured to keep generic signatures and to keep Gson's `TypeToken` class.
See the [ProGuard / R8](#r8--proguard) section for more information.
```

**Reason:** You probably have not configured ProGuard / R8 correctly

**Solution:** Make sure you have configured ProGuard / R8 correctly to preserve the names of your fields.

> See the section below, it's related to this issue.

Reviewer: Directly link to the section as well?
```suggestion
See the [ProGuard / R8](#r8--proguard) section for more information.
```

Author: This is intended. As I see it, the "random property names" and "field names are being obfuscated" are the same issue; I just wanted to link them together.

Author: We probably should merge these 2 sections.

Reviewer: I would keep them separate for now. The symptoms are different (but similar) and if I recall correctly users had experienced and asked about both problems already in the past.

## <a id="android-app-broken-after-app-update"></a> Android app unable to parse JSON after app update

**Symptom:** You released a new version of your Android app and it fails to parse JSON data created by the previous version of your app

**Reason:** You probably have not configured ProGuard / R8 correctly; probably the field names are being obfuscated and their naming changed between the versions of your app

**Solution:** Make sure you have configured ProGuard / R8 correctly to preserve the names of your fields.

> See the [Proguard / R8](#r8--proguard) section for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [ProGuard / R8](#r8--proguard) section for more information.
```

-keep class * extends com.google.gson.reflect.TypeToken
```

> See the [Proguard / R8](#r8--proguard) section for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [ProGuard / R8](#r8--proguard) section for more information.
```

- This does not solve any of the type-safety problems mentioned above; in the long term you should prefer one of the other solutions listed above. This system property might be removed in future Gson versions.
- You should only ever set the property to `"true"`, but never to any other value or manually clear it. Otherwise this might counteract any libraries you are using which might have deliberately set the system property because they rely on its behavior.

> ## R8 / ProGuard

Author: I didn't apply `## <a id="r8-proguard"></a> R8 / ProGuard` for this header like the others, as the index of it (`#a-idr8-proguarda-r8--proguard`) can't be honored by GitHub web correctly.

Reviewer: Is that specific to this header? Because for the others GitHub UI seems to ignore the `<a>` when deriving the default anchor name (or it only seems to prepend a `-`).

If possible I think a stable anchor with `<a>` would be better.

Author: Seems all existing ones are invalid.

Author: View https://github.com/Goooler/gson/blob/e8f52fb490dc7b58d95c01447701b986e655a214/Troubleshooting.md#a-idproguard-r8a-proguard--r8.

The ref id works in IDEA's markdown render but GitHub website.

Reviewer: That rather looks like an issue with IntelliJ. In GitHub both anchors work:
- GitHub derived one (also used for the "🔗" icon next to the title):
[`#-proguard--r8`](https://github.com/Goooler/gson/blob/e8f52fb490dc7b58d95c01447701b986e655a214/Troubleshooting.md#-proguard--r8)
- The one assigned with `<a>` (which should be referred to within the guide)
[`#proguard-r8`](https://github.com/Goooler/gson/blob/e8f52fb490dc7b58d95c01447701b986e655a214/Troubleshooting.md#proguard-r8)

(though maybe for GitHub this also relies on implementation details to some extent)

Author: I prefer to keep the header without id, it works for both IDEA and GitHub. But I can update the style if you want.

Reviewer: IntelliJ (IntelliJ IDEA 2024.3.5) seems to be a bit inconsistent. Code completion for Markdown links suggests these `#a-idr8-proguarda-r8--proguard` anchors you mentioned. However, for the Markdown preview the custom `<a>` anchor links seem to work fine within the same document. But they do not work between different files, e.g. the link from the README to the Troubleshooting guide section.

Author: Yeah, the same behavior as IDEA 2025.1

> If you use Gson as a dependency in an Android project which uses R8 as a default compiler you don’t have to do anything.

Reviewer: Minor: Maybe use a regular `'` for consistency with the remainder of this document.
```suggestion
If you use Gson as a dependency in an Android project which uses R8 as a default compiler you don't have to do anything.
```

> If you use Gson as a dependency in an Android project which uses R8 as a default compiler you don’t have to do anything.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use Gson as a dependency in an Android project which uses R8 or ProGuard as code shrinking and obfuscation tool you don’t have to do anything.
```

> The specific rules are [already bundled](gson/src/main/resources/META-INF/proguard/gson.pro) (from Gson 2.10.1) into

Reviewer: Wrong version number? See https://github.com/google/gson/releases/tag/gson-parent-2.11.0
```suggestion
The specific rules are [already bundled](gson/src/main/resources/META-INF/proguard/gson.pro) (from Gson 2.11.0) into
```

> the JAR which can be interpreted by R8 automatically. For users who still use the older Gson versions, you may need to
> copy the rules from the [`gson.pro`](gson/src/main/resources/META-INF/proguard/gson.pro) into your own ProGuard
> configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the JAR which can be interpreted by R8 automatically. For users who still use older Gson versions, you may need to
copy the rules from the [`gson.pro`](gson/src/main/resources/META-INF/proguard/gson.pro) file into your own ProGuard
configuration file.
```
